# Weapon-Detection-YOLOv3
Weapon Detection in Surveillance Systems using YOLOv3 - Deep Learning:

   From many statistics, it can be assumed that the violence rate concerning guns and harmful weapons is increasing every year becoming a challenge for law enforcement agencies to overwhelm this issue in a timely manner. There are many places where the crime rate caused by firearms or knives is very high, especially in places where they are allowed. The early detection of potentially violent situations is of paramount importance for citizen's security. Current surveillance and control systems still require human monitoring and intervention. We present a system of automatic detection of weapons on video appropriate for surveillance and control purposes. One way to prevent these situations is by detecting the presence of dangerous objects such as handguns and knives in surveillance videos. The solution to this problem is monitoring and early detection using a control camera or surveillance systems which can help to prevent this kind of violence and assist policemen or security agents to act timely. 
          
   Initially, a dataset is created which consists of 3 classes of weapons – Handgun, Knives, and Heavy guns. This dataset is trained for classification of weapons using YOLO V3 (You Only Look Once – Version 3) algorithm. Once it is classified and if it is identified to be a weapon, the type of weapon present is detected. If the weapon is detected, an alert is sent to the authorities so that they can take necessary actions to prevent crimes. This early detection of weapons is really useful to prevent violent crimes using dangerous weapons thereby providing security to public.
